---
layout: post
title: "A Whole New World/Year/OS"
date: 2015-01-01
categories: blog
---
Happy New Year! Today is the second day of my trial by fire project. 

Since 2002 my family has been holding an annual "Family Meeting" -- a mix between a performance review, a roast, and resolution/goal setting. It felt excessive and a bit of a bore as an angsty pre-teen, but I've come to really enjoy the tradition. This year's has been one of the most organized meetings we've had--Dad always brings in his latest meeting styles to the table and presides over the breakfast table exercising the power of the pen. Good stuff--anyway, one of my goals is to challenge myself to carry a more healthy lifestyle. By "lifestyle" I mean all vectors of life: eating, exercising, finances, learning. 

I'm taking on creating this blog to practice and track my progress on learning to work with code to give independent learning a shot. I come with zero knowledge, zero background in programming/coding. A has encouraged me multiple times, offering to teach me, but each time it fizzles out within a day. I blogged in college to keep a personal record of different things that happened and really enjoyed it back then, but each time I've tried to pick it back up again, I couldn't keep it up. I can come up with a whole laundry list of excuses why, but I won't bore  you. 

But with a year of new beginnings: new year, new job and all those things that come with change, and writing this post on a new OS (yes even on the second day of doing this--I don't have a Mac right now), comes the foolish feeling that is a "can-do" attitude..which may very well fall flat on its face for the umpteenth time in a few days or weeks..so I'll try to ride the high as long as I can. 

Back to the actual reason I started writing about family meeting: as a result I'm away from the Mac I was using yesterday to kickstart my project. The only computer I can get my hands on is a Windows Lenovo. So, with A coaching me over gchat, we reviewed the concepts to get me set up to write a new post and practice a concept today. 

Apparently there is a Windows Github desktop app, which I've downloaded and cloned my repository locally. Default is "master" and you need to swap to "gh-pages" to see all your history. Also downloaded Sublime--another text editor. I'm still not sure how to commit and push using this app since I don't have access to the terminal and A says I probably can't run jekyll locally..but here're the basics again that resurfaced to me when I recapped how to get things working.

To write a post you need:

1.  Your Repository downloaded locally on your computer so you can access the folder structure

2. Text Editor to write files and save into the local folder structure as .md or textile file

3. Github to pull from your local formatting to the webs into commit/push (have not figured this one out yet because the app is very minimalist and nothing says anything about commit/push..)

I'm writing this file and will now save it into the repository under posts to see what happens in the app..

--
update: AHA! When I saved this file to the _posts folder, a new tab shows up above "History" in the app called "Uncommitted Changes"--these things are starting to look familiar!